1. what is python ?

ans :-  Python is an interpreted, object-oriented, high-level programming language.



2. why we use python ?

ans :- 1.Python is an accessible language for new programmers because the community provides many introductory resources.

       2. python is commonly uses for developing website and software  , you can use all kinds of Application like.



3. what is variable ?

ans :- Variables are containers for storing data values.

    VARIABLE is a memory/location in which the data is stored. Whose value we can change that is called a VARIABLE. 
    You can give any name to the VARIABLE and you can store anything in the variable.

    चर डेटा मानों को संग्रहीत करने के लिए कंटेनर हैं।

    VARIABLE एक मेमोरी / लोकेशन है जिसमें डेटा स्टोर किया जाता है। जिसका मूल्य हम बदल सकते हैं उसे VARIABLE कहते हैं।
    आप VARIABLE को कोई भी नाम दे सकते हैं और वेरिएबल में कुछ भी स्टोर कर सकते हैं।


4. what is datatype ?

ans :- Data types are the classification or categorization of data items. 



5. what are operators ?

ans :- Operators are used to perform operations on variables and values.



6. what are if-else ?

ans :- The if-else statement is used to execute both the true part and the false part of a given condition.

    if-else स्टेटमेंट का उपयोग किसी दिए गए कंडीशन के ट्रू पार्ट और फॉल्स पार्ट दोनों को निष्पादित करने के लिए किया जाता है।



7. what is loop ?

ans :- a loop is a statement that contains instructions that continually repeats until a certain condition is reached.



8. what is for loop ?

ans :- A for loop is used for iterating over a sequence .


9. what is while loop ? 

ans :-  a while loop is used to execute a block of statements repeatedly until a given condition is satisfied.




10. what is list ?

ans :- The list is a sequence data type which is used to store the collection of data.


Q.what is list comprihantion ?

ans :- A Python list comprehension consists of brackets containing the expression,
 which is executed for each element along with the for loop to iterate over each element in the Python list
 


11. what is dictionary ?

ans :- Dictionaries are used to store data values in key:value pairs.



12. what is functions ?

ans :- functions is block of code and functions is a group of statements that perform some actions .



13. what is recursion ?

ans :-  A function that calls itself is a recursive function.



14. what is file handling ?

ans :- The key function for working with files in Python is the open() function. 
       
       The file handling plays an important role when the data needs to be stored permanently into the file



15. what is json in python ?

ans :- JSON JavaScript Object Notation is a format for structuring data



16. what is api ?

ans :- Application Programming Interface, is a server that you can use to retrieve and send data to using code.



17. what is webscraping  ?

ans :-  Web scraping is an automatic method to obtain large amounts of data from websites.

18. what is classes ?

ans :-  A Class is like an object constructor, or a "blueprint" for creating objects.

suppose we are creating the mobile body there can be use.  

19. What is Pandas?

ans :-  Pandas is a Python library used for working with data sets.

It has functions for analyzing, cleaning, exploring, and manipulating data.


